In this video, we're going to use
Power Query to get several
files from a folder.
The next thing we
need to do is get
all the enrollment information
into our original spreadsheet.
There is a little
bit of a challenge
with enrollments though.
We actually have three branches,
and every week they download
a text file to a folder
called enrollments.
If you have a look in
your downloaded files,
you should see a folder
called enrollments,
and if I double-click
to open that,
there are three files on them,
one from each of our branches.
Now, what would typically happen,
is each of these would have to be
imported and then they need
to be stacked
underneath each other.
The good news is
with Power Query,
we can totally automate this
process. Let's take a look.
Back in our spreadsheet,
I'm going to come
to my Data ribbon.
I'm going to come to Get Data.
We're going to come to From File,
and we're going to
choose From Folder.
The first thing we
need to do is tell
it where this folder is.
Now, if you've put your
Workbooks on the desktop,
that will make your life a little
easier because all folders
on the desktop appear at
the bottom, over here.
If yours has been put in
your documents or somewhere else,
just come to this PC,
you see Documents, and
you should be able
to navigate to it from there.
I'm going to just
come to Workbooks on
my desktop and I'm going to
select the Enrollments folder.
Make sure you've got
the enrollments folder,
and we're going to click "Okay".
Now, we're going to
click "Okay" again,
and this is going to show
me the files selected.
In the newer version,
there's combined
button which totally
automates the process,
so that's terrific,
and I'm going to
show you that first,
but if you don't have the
combined button, don't worry,
I'm going to come back and show
you the operation that
requires a couple more steps.
We're going to click
"Combine", and
I'm going to combine
and transform.
It's just giving me a
preview on the first file,
so I'm going to click "Okay".
Now, what it's
going to do is take
all three files and stack
them on top of each other.
Click "Control Shift Plus"
a few times, so you can see it.
Now, what it's done it is
actually matched the
column headings.
For this to work,
it's a good idea
if you have the same
column headings.
It is also included a column
showing me where
the data came from.
In this case, I don't need it.
I'm going to select Source
column and to remove it,
you can click the
Remove columns button
or just press your
"Delete button".
There's our data already,
and we're just going
to close and load.
We're just going to put
it in a new Workbook,
so how good was that?
Now, I'm just going to go
through that process again
for people who don't
have the newest version,
so joining us when you get
to the same step as me,
I'm going to come
back to my Data tab.
I'm going to come to Get Data.
I'm going to choose From
File and From Folder.
Once again, I'm going to need
to go and find that folder,
which is my Enrollments
and I'm going to
say Okay, and Okay.
Now, if you don't have
the combined button,
what you're going to do is use
the transformed data
or the edit button,
so we're going to click on that,
and what it's showing us now,
I'll just zoom in a little
bit so you can see.
What it's showing us, are
the three files we're
trying to combine.
Now, the first column,
the one that says Binary,
that actually contains the
contents of the files.
The other columns are
just information about
the files and we don't
actually need those,
so I'm going to select
my Name column,
hold my shift key down,
and select Folder Path,
and then I'm just going
to press "Delete"
or Remove columns.
Now, here's the interesting bit.
If you come to the
Content folder,
you'll see two little arrows,
and if you over roll it,
it tells you that that's
the Combined Files button.
That's what we're going
to need to click now.
We're going to click
"Combined Files".
Again, it's giving you a
preview of the first file.
We're just going to say Okay,
and it has done the same job.
If however you're working
some of the older versions,
it doesn't always automate
as many of the steps.
You may find, for example,
that your column headings are
not actually column headings.
Sometimes what happens is the
column headings end up as
a first row of data and
the columns go Column 1,
Column 2, Column 3.
Now, this can actually
be really easily fixed.
I'm just going to demonstrate
what the problem looks like.
If it says Column 1,
Column 2, Column 3,
you're going to come
up to the Home ribbon,
and you're going to find
the button that says
Use First Row as Headers.
When you click on it, it
promotes first row
up to being Headers.
Now, the other thing that
happened automatically,
was all the headers from the
other files were removed.
If that hasn't happened for you,
so if you still seeing
Staff ID, Stuff Name,
as the headings from
the other files,
we can fairly easily
filter those out.
All you need to do
is come to Staff ID,
click the "Auto Filter button",
and where you see
Staff ID in this list,
you just going to untake it,
and click "Okay",
and that will remove all
the other heading rose.
A couple more steps,
but still really easy to do,
and you only need to do it once.
If you've done it this way, it
will too close Home button.
If you've just been
refreshing with me,
I'm just going to
close this query apps.
I'm going to hit the
top right-hand corner.
When you do that, it gives you
the option to keep or
discard the query.
I'm going to discard
this one because
I already have the data loaded.
Now, I should just point out in
our Queries and Connections,
we do have our Enrollments
query which has been added,
but there were quite
a few helper queries
created along the way,
and that's all the staff
at the top of the file is.
You don't need to do
anything with it,
but don't remove it
because those are
the queries needed at
creating enrollments query.
You can collapse this
information by hitting
the little black twisty,
so you can hide it away.
Now, let's just demonstrate
what's actually going
to happen when we change
the contents of the folder.
Obviously if we change
into individual
files, this will update,
but if you change the
contents of the folder,
this updates as well.
You don't need to do this, but
you welcome to if you'd like to.
I'm back in my File Explorer.
I'm going to come into
Workbooks and I've actually
just got a couple of
last minute enrollments
from Melbourne,
so I'm going to grab this
Enrollments Melbourne_2 file,
and I'm going to drop it
into my Enrollments folder.
I now actually have
four files in here,
and there are two
additional ones from
Melbourne. Back in Excel.
I'm going to right-click
and refresh,
and there are my two
additional enrollments.
If I remove the file from the
folder and hit "Refresh",
same thing, that date
will be removed.
You can actually keep
Excel completely up today
just by adding and removing
files from the folder.
Those files, they need
to be at the same type,
but they can be CSV
text, you name it.
There's a really exciting
automation option,
and we're starting to see how
Power Query can save
us heaps of time.